Meeting summary created by screenapp.io

[00:02:11] - Meeting recorded by AI; minutes will be posted publicly on GitHub.  
[00:03:20] - Discussing additional spending for Kurt's extended stay at Google mentor meeting.  
[00:04:35] - Suggestion to vote on covering Kurt's additional expenses.  
[00:06:06] - Question raised about allowing bug reports on the forum again.  
[00:07:10] - Proposal to ask Max to manage bug reports on the forum.  
[00:09:01] - Discussion on potential duplicate bug reports between forum and GitHub.  
[00:12:02] - Need to expand FPA General Assembly membership; brainstorming potential candidates.  
[00:13:22] - Concerns about conflicts of interest with Pieter's potential membership.  
[00:18:00] - Discussing transparency and potential amendments to bylaws regarding conflicts of interest.  
[00:19:54] - Engaging the General Assembly; current methods not effective for participation.  
[00:23:32] - Reconformation vote proposed to address inactive FPA members.  
[00:27:30] - Current outstanding votes discussed; need for more active participation in voting.  
[00:29:15] - Reconformation process aims to clarify member engagement and participation.  
[00:28:30] - Discussion on reconformation call and FreeCAD's involvement.  
[00:29:15] - Inactive status for members, easy reactivation process.  
[00:30:02] - FPA travel policy passed, limiting to two trips per person per year.  
[00:30:40] - Renewal of stipend for chair position approved, Ajinkya withdrew travel grant.  
[00:32:09] - FLOSS fund discussed, decision made not to pursue funding.  
[00:33:15] - Felix Beniker wants to sponsor FreeCAD, invoice needed for donation.  
[00:35:31] - Discussion on accepting sponsorships and maintaining nonprofit integrity.  
[00:39:00] - Grant renewals for Concrete and Adrian approved, contracts updated.  
[00:40:11] - Limitations on donation sources discussed, request for clarification pending.  
[00:41:28] - Budget votes completed, blog draft for public announcement prepared.  
[00:44:07] - Update on grant applications, no new grants approved recently.  
[00:48:02] - Discussion on 1.0 release blockers and bounty status.  
[00:52:12] - Need for new funding ideas discussed, community input sought.  
[00:55:57] - Educational initiatives explored, feedback from interested educators collected.  
[01:01:27] - Insights on open source software usage in academia shared.  
[01:04:39] - Conclusion of meeting, no additional topics raised.


[00:02:11] Chris announces that the meeting is being recorded by screenapp.io, which is summarizing the minutes. The group discusses the possibility of posting meeting minutes publicly on GitHub instead of keeping them in a private section of the forums. There is a consensus that it makes sense to shift to public posting, and Chris agrees to handle it.

[00:03:20] The agenda moves to item number 21 regarding additional spending for the GSoC mentors meeting. Kurt attended the Google mentor meeting, and while his travel expenses were covered, he incurred an additional $600 in expenses for staying extra days. The group discusses the lack of available funds since they had already allocated money for another mentor stipend. Yorick suggests asking the FPA to vote on covering the additional expenses, and the group agrees to proceed with a vote.

[00:06:06] The next agenda item addresses the question of allowing bug reports on the forum. There have been inquiries about why bug reporting has been restricted to GitHub. Werner proposes that since they have a paid person to handle bug reports, they could open a forum section for bug reporting, with Max managing the synchronization between the forum and GitHub. The group discusses the potential for duplicate reports and agrees to ask Max for his opinion on the matter.

[00:09:01] The group considers the feasibility of creating a separate forum section for bug reports. They acknowledge that many bugs are reported on the forum, and having a dedicated section could help streamline the process. They discuss the possibility of providing a template or guidelines for reporting bugs to ensure clarity and consistency. Max's willingness to take on this additional responsibility is noted, and the group agrees to try this approach on a trial basis.

[00:12:02] The discussion shifts to expanding the FPA General Assembly and finding new members who are genuinely interested in participating. The group brainstorms potential candidates, including Joe, Pieter, and Jackson, while also considering the implications of Pieter's existing contracts with the organization. They emphasize the importance of transparency regarding conflicts of interest and the need for clear guidelines on voting and funding.

[00:15:51] The group discusses the process for joining the FPA, which involves a vote by existing members. There is no formal recruitment process, but interested individuals can express their desire to join. The bylaws are referenced as a source of official guidelines, and Joe expresses his willingness to volunteer as a member. The need for amendments to the bylaws to address potential conflicts of interest is also highlighted.

[00:18:50] The conversation turns to engaging the General Assembly more effectively. The FPA admins meet weekly, but there is concern that the General Assembly is not actively participating in discussions. The group reflects on previous attempts to engage members through email and forum discussions, noting that many members do not participate. They consider implementing a reconfirmation vote to assess the activity level of current members and potentially deactivate inactive members.

[00:23:40] The current outstanding votes are reviewed, including a new grant proposal from Pieter for VarSet UX improvement, which has received support from the grant review committee. The group notes that there are several pending votes, including a travel grant for FOSDEM and a stalled grant to reqrefusion, which is blocked due to a lack of unanimous support. The need for more active participation from FPA members is reiterated, as non-voting members can inadvertently block proposals.

[00:28:11] The group discusses the challenges of re-engaging members who have become inactive. They consider reaching out to Chris B, who has distanced himself from discussions, to encourage his return. The reconfirmation process is seen as a way to clarify member status and ensure that only active participants are counted in votes. The meeting concludes with a focus on the importance of maintaining engagement and transparency within the organization.

[00:28:30] The reconfirmation call is expected to address some issues, but there are concerns about one member's lack of involvement. It seems he has been sidelined in favor of focusing on his faculty work. The speaker expresses a desire to approach him gently, acknowledging his contributions and encouraging him to return to the group, emphasizing that his role is still important.

[00:29:15] The reconfirmation process places individuals in inactive status rather than removing them from the FPA. Reactivation is straightforward; simply showing up again makes one active. This process is designed to keep things moving forward without permanently excluding anyone.

[00:30:02] Updates on votes include the passing of the FPA travel policy, which outlines support for travel, including a new form to fill out. The key change is a limit of two trips per person per year, which is not expected to impact most members.

[00:30:40] The renewal of a stipend for a chair position has been approved, with the chair abstaining from the vote. Ajinkya has withdrawn his travel grant application for APAC, indicating he will not attend. The admin board renewals for Chris Hennes and Chris Heinz have also passed, with both of them abstaining, and the remaining votes being sufficient for approval.

[00:31:23] Chris Hennes departs to meeting to teach a class, leaving the meeting in the hands of others. The discussion moves to item 16 regarding the FLOSS fund, which was previously discussed. The fund is intended for smaller open-source projects, and the group decided not to pursue funding from it.

[00:32:09] An email was sent to a potential sponsor for FreeCAD, who seems legitimate but may want to display their logo on the FreeCAD website. The speaker is awaiting a response. Felix Beniker has expressed interest in sponsoring FreeCAD but requires an invoice instead of a donation for accounting purposes.

[00:34:11] The speaker discusses the implications of selling advertising space on the website. They express concern about the potential for the organization to become a selling platform. However, since the sponsor is a user of FreeCAD, the speaker believes it aligns with their rules for accepting donations.

[00:36:04] The group agrees to proceed with the invoice for the sponsorship, while remaining cautious about expanding such practices in the future. The discussion continues with updates on various items, including board member renewals and grant renewals, which have all been completed.

[00:39:20] The speaker mentions that the limits on accepting donations are still under discussion, with a request written but not yet merged. Budgets have been voted on and approved, and a draft blog post is prepared to inform the community about travel preparations.

[00:41:41] The FPA minutes are functioning well, and the group considers having Chris Hennes handle the next steps. The discussion shifts to grant applications, with no new grants recently approved, and ongoing applications still under review.

[00:44:07] The group discusses the status of version 1.0, noting that there are still blockers but no new bounties assigned. They have awarded seven bounties so far and plan to review the remaining budget for additional bounties in the upcoming meeting.

[00:48:02] The developer handbook remains a task on the list, and there are no new updates regarding the copyright of the new logo. The group decides to lower the priority of this item for future discussions.

[00:49:26] The travel policy and funding discussions are concluded, with the request already voted on. The group reflects on proposals for spending, noting that they need to decide on new funding priorities themselves, as community feedback has not yielded clear direction.

[00:52:41] The speaker shares updates on educational initiatives, having reached out to interested educators from a previous survey. They are gathering feedback on potential contributions and the format of a network for educators using FreeCAD.

[00:56:02] The speaker plans to analyze the feedback and potentially create a closed forum for educators. They emphasize the importance of generating interest and participation from a broader audience to ensure the initiative's success.

[01:00:05] A discussion about the perception of open-source software in academia reveals that many professors appreciate its use for deeper understanding. The speaker shares insights from an interview with a user who highlights the benefits of open-source tools in engineering education.

[01:03:11] The speaker is compiling a curated list of academic papers that utilize FreeCAD across various fields, aiming to create a resource that showcases its applications. They plan to collaborate with the web team to establish a dedicated page for this information on the website.

[01:04:50] The meeting concludes with no additional topics to discuss, and participants say their goodbyes.
