[00:06:30] - Discussion on who has authority to bind the organization for contracts.  
[00:09:12] - Yorik has been signing contracts; need to clarify authority in bylaws.  
[00:11:04] - FPA's focus for the next year discussed; importance of community input emphasized.  
[00:12:00] - Joe joins the meeting; welcomes and updates on FPA membership.  
[00:15:02] - FPA aims to fund specific priorities while allowing developers to choose projects.  
[00:19:00] - Need for clearer guidelines for developers on project priorities discussed.  
[00:22:00] - Importance of maintaining FreeCAD as a community project highlighted.  
[00:25:32] - Five open discussions on FPA-designed grants; Joe to review before voting.  
[00:27:05] - Proposal for a reward pool for Open Cascade work discussed; requires broader input.  
[00:30:14] - Technical support from Open Cascade discussed; potential benefits and limitations noted.  
[00:33:11] - Discussion on maintaining a custom fork of Open Cascade for patches.  
[00:36:06] - Need for a focused discussion on Open Cascade priorities and funding.  
[00:37:18] - Financials update: projected revenue for the year discussed; potential spikes noted.  
[00:39:03] - Bounties process reviewed; payments to be made for completed tasks.  
[00:40:02] - Discussion on changing terminology from active/inactive to voting/non-voting roles.  
[00:39:34] - Discussion on tracking paid respite and membership status.  
[00:40:12] - Yorik and reqrefusion collaborating on post facto grants proposal.  
[00:41:11] - Proposed changes to grant language regarding conflicts of interest ready for vote.  
[00:42:08] - Obelisk invited and approved; onboarding process discussed.  
[00:43:02] - Jackson Ausland expressed interest in joining; vote to be organized.  
[00:44:02] - Planning for a joint banner with KiCAD for an event.  
[00:45:05] - Chris confirmed attendance and offered to bring pencils for the event.  
[00:47:30] - Ongoing grant applications; Kacper's project received positive feedback.  
[00:48:05] - Updates on ongoing and upcoming votes, including Adrian's contract.  
[00:49:12] - Discussion on inactive members and roster updates.  
[00:50:41] - Item on budget allocation for issues discussed; ongoing forum discussions.  
[00:55:00] - Clarification needed on who can sign official documents for the organization.  
[00:58:34] - Decision to research signing authority before raising the issue on the forum.  

[00:06:30] The agenda item 23 is introduced, focusing on who has the authority to bind the organization. York and Chris discuss a memorandum of understanding that requires a signature for the FPA, noting that there is no clear rule in the bylaws regarding who can sign contracts. They speculate on the legal default in Brussels and whether the chair named in the paperwork has the authority to sign.

[00:09:52] The conversation shifts to the need for a discussion on the forum to gather input on who should have signing authority. The group acknowledges that York has been signing documents thus far, but there is uncertainty about whether others can do so. They consider consulting an attorney for clarity on the legal implications.

[00:10:24] The group decides to pause on item 22 regarding initiatives, as half of the admin team is absent. They reflect on the recent release of version 1.0 and the need to determine the FPA's focus for the upcoming year. The discussion touches on the political implications of the FPA's involvement in development decisions.

[00:12:00] Joe joins the meeting, and the group welcomes him as a new member of the FPA. They discuss the importance of the FPA's focus areas and how they relate to funding decisions. The group acknowledges that while they can express priorities, developers are free to submit funding requests for any projects.

[00:16:31] The conversation continues about the FPA's role in guiding development without directly interfering. The group agrees that providing guidelines for new developers would be beneficial, emphasizing the importance of maintaining the community-driven nature of the project.

[00:20:03] The need for a longer-term vision or roadmap for the project is discussed. The group recognizes that while they have focused on immediate priorities, a strategic plan for future releases would help guide development efforts. They consider the possibility of creating a document outlining their vision and priorities.

[00:24:15] The group decides to hold off on item 22 for now, as they do not have a clear action item. They move on to item 21, discussing five open discussions about FPA-designed grants. Joe is given access to these discussions, and the group agrees to turn them into votes soon.

[00:26:08] The group addresses item 20, confirming that a GitHub issue has been resolved. They discuss setting up a closed forum section for educators, with one member acknowledging a missed message regarding this task.

[00:27:05] Adrienne's proposal to slightly increase a grant is mentioned, with indications that it is likely to pass. The group moves on to item 17, which involves a proposal for a reward pool for open cascade work. They recognize that this proposal may require broader discussions about funding priorities.

[00:28:12] Chris updates the group on a potential paid support tier for open cascade, noting the high costs associated with technical support. The group discusses whether this support would be beneficial for their needs and the implications of being a paying customer.

[00:31:05] The conversation shifts to the idea of forming a dedicated team to work on open cascade issues. The group considers the potential benefits of having a team focused on contributing to the open cascade project and addressing any problems that arise.

[00:36:06] The group discusses item 16, which involves a potential donation from Brad. They agree to move this item to the bottom of the agenda for further discussion when Brad is present.

[00:37:18] Financial updates are provided, with projected revenue for the year estimated at around $110,000. The group notes an increase in GitHub donations following the release of version 1.0.

[00:38:36] The group discusses bounties, confirming that most have been marked and are in the process of being paid. Yorik is reminded to follow up on a specific bounty claim from Kacper.

[00:40:02] The group considers changing the wording from "active/inactive" to "voting/non-voting" in their discussions. They decide to post this topic on the forum for further input before making a decision.

[00:39:34] Discussion about an email that was not received, with mention of payments made over the past two years, indicating that three payments have been processed. A list is being maintained to track these payments. 

[00:39:54] Item 12 involves Yorik and reqrefusion collaborating on a proposal for post facto grants. Yorik has started the proposal, and comments have been made by reqrefusion that Yorik has yet to review. 

[00:41:11] Item 11 addresses proposed changes to grant language to mitigate potential conflicts of interest. The discussion appears to have slowed down, suggesting readiness for a vote. 

[00:41:47] The working logo trademark application is on the agenda, with one member indicating they will begin preparations for a new trademark application this week. 

[00:42:08] Item 9 covers the addition of new invitees, specifically mentioning that Obelisk has been invited, accepted the nomination, and was approved. The next step is onboarding, which includes granting access to the forum and notifying members of Obelisk's onboarding. 

[00:43:44] Jackson Ausland has expressed interest in joining the group. He has been met in person and is considered a good candidate due to his ability to attend meetings. A vote will be organized for his nomination. 

[00:44:41] Fuzz and Yorik discuss preparations for an event, including the creation of a joint banner with KiCAD. The banner will be shared and coordinated, with costs being minimal. 

[00:45:05] Chris confirms attendance at the upcoming meeting and agrees to bring pencils, which were popular at a previous event. The pencils will be manufactured in the U.S. and will have specific color requirements. 

[00:47:30] Ongoing grant applications are discussed, with a vote for Kacper's unified transparent previews currently underway. The grant review committee has shown enthusiasm for this application, which requests a small amount of funding. 

[00:48:05] Item 6 covers ongoing and upcoming votes, including a vote on changes to Adrian's contract, which is expected to pass. The vote for Joe has already passed with five in favor. 

[00:49:06] There is a need to update the list of inactive members, with a cutoff date mentioned as November 14. Two members will fall out, and one new member will join, affecting the overall count. 

[00:49:32] Item 5 discusses the status of version 1.0, with no immediate actions required. A blog post related to the logo topic is in progress. 

[00:50:41] Item 4 is pending cuts, while items 2 and 3 remain on the agenda for future discussion. 

[00:51:07] Item 1 involves waiting for Jackson to provide cost details related to CI. There is a suggestion to delegate item 3 to reqrefusion, but it is clarified that it is not an FPA action anymore. 

[00:52:06] Item 2 is related to the CAD advisory group, which is functioning autonomously. The group has a GitHub project but does not require FPA involvement at this time. 

[00:54:50] Discussion on how to handle voting for budget allocation is ongoing, with a proposal for bounties being discussed in the FPA forum. 

[00:55:38] Item 17 addresses who has the authority to sign documents. There is uncertainty about whether only the chairperson can sign, and further research will be conducted to clarify this. 

[00:56:35] The statutes do not specify who can sign, leading to a need for clarification. There is a suggestion to potentially change the statutes, which could involve additional costs. 

[00:58:34] The meeting concludes with a plan to gather more information before raising issues on the forum.
