# FPA Meeting Minutes

04 December 2024

Minutes compiled using ScreenApp.io

## Overview

[00:10:01] - Yorik not attending; conversation about transparency and audit board.  
[00:11:40] - Questioning necessity of an audit board for FPA's financial transparency.  
[00:14:01] - Suggestion to revisit feedback mechanisms for FPA's performance.  
[00:16:14] - Discussion on managing liquid assets to protect against inflation.  
[00:19:16] - Proposal to invest more in time deposits for better interest.  
[00:22:20] - Ajinkya proposes free booth at mtex.in for exposure to mechanical engineers.  
[00:25:01] - Need for clear travel policy for attending trade shows and events.  
[00:30:04] - Researching potential benefits of establishing a 501c3 for corporate donations.  
[00:33:41] - Concerns about Yorik being the sole authority for signing legal documents in the organization.  
[00:33:43] - Discussion on authority and potential delays due to a member's absence.  
[00:34:27] - Need to batch changes to the charter for efficiency and cost-effectiveness.  
[00:35:58] - Review of statutes planned for January to assess necessary changes.  
[00:36:12] - Developer meeting highlighted desire for smaller, more frequent releases.  
[00:37:15] - Focus on code quality and user experience emphasized in discussions.  
[00:39:35] - Proposal for a twice-yearly release cadence with clear deadlines discussed.  
[00:41:07] - Suggestion to rename biweekly development meeting to maintainers meeting for clarity.  
[00:44:03] - Discussion on funding priorities for 2025 and community input on initiatives.  
[00:46:09] - Five FPA-designed grants under consideration, with some ready for voting.  
[00:48:15] - Need for more engagement in forum discussions about grant proposals.  
[00:50:01] - Bounty award process pending confirmation of all bounties being paid.  
[00:51:04] - Distinction between bounty proposals and preauthorized grants clarified.  
[00:55:25] - Trademark application in a waiting period; no action required until then.  
[00:57:01] - New members welcomed; ongoing discussions about inviting more participants.  
[01:00:12] - Concerns raised about knowledge transfer and bus factor regarding server access.  

## Details

[00:10:01] The agenda is brought up, and the first item discussed is about a board of auditors suggested by reqrefusion. The speaker notes that while such boards are common in associations worldwide, they are not strictly necessary. They discuss the potential benefits of having a board to increase transparency and legitimacy within the association.

[00:11:06] The conversation continues about the implications of having an audit board, with concerns about the term "auditors" potentially raising alarms among members. They reflect on the association's current level of transparency, noting that most activities are conducted openly, with only privacy concerns holding back some information.

[00:12:01] The speaker questions whether the general assembly of members already fulfills the role of oversight, suggesting that while theoretically true, the assembly's informal nature may not be sufficient. They discuss the challenge of providing too much information, which could lead to confusion rather than clarity.

[00:14:01] The discussion shifts to the need for better feedback mechanisms regarding the association's performance. They agree to revisit the topic later, suggesting it be added to a list of items for future consideration.

[00:16:14] The next agenda item addresses concerns about having too many liquid assets and the need to protect them from inflation. The speaker highlights the significant amount of liquid assets on the balance sheet and suggests that the association should consider investing some of this money to generate interest income.

[00:17:07] The conversation reveals that some funds have already been placed in a time deposit, but there is still a large amount of liquid assets. One speaker expresses concern about the association's current approach, suggesting that they should be spending the money rather than hoarding it.

[00:18:11] The discussion includes the idea of investing in CDs as a way to earn interest while keeping funds relatively liquid. They agree that it might be wise to allocate more funds into time deposits, especially given the current interest rates.

[00:19:16] The conversation moves to the possibility of investing in a rolling set of CDs to protect against inflation while maintaining liquidity. They decide to leave this action item for the new year rather than rushing to make decisions at the end of the year.

[00:20:36] reqrefusion humorously suggests that Yorik could make a house for the money, but the group acknowledges the impracticality of such an investment given current real estate prices. They briefly discuss alternative investments like fractional Bitcoin.

[00:21:17] The next agenda item involves a potential free booth at an expo, with Ajinkya explaining that he met a businessman who can arrange for the booth. The group discusses the potential benefits of attending the expo, particularly in terms of reaching mechanical engineers and students.

[00:22:41] The conversation focuses on the goals of attending the expo, with the primary aim being to increase user engagement with FreeCAD. They express skepticism about the effectiveness of trade shows in generating significant donations or user interest compared to online outreach.

[00:24:11] The group reflects on the value of face-to-face interactions at trade shows, noting that while they can be beneficial for networking, they often do not lead to immediate productive outcomes. They emphasize the need for a clear goal when attending such events.

[00:26:03] chennes suggests that the organization should articulate a clear travel policy for attending trade shows, emphasizing the importance of having specific objectives rather than attending events without a clear purpose.

[00:29:02] The discussion shifts to item 15, which involves researching the establishment of a parallel 501c3 in the U.S. The group agrees that this is a significant topic that may not be addressed immediately but should remain on the agenda for future consideration.

[00:30:22] The conversation touches on the potential benefits of a 501c3 structure for attracting corporate donations. They agree that further research is needed to determine if potential donors would be more inclined to contribute if the organization had this status.

[00:31:12] The group discusses the need to restructure the agenda item to reflect the long-term structure of the organization, incorporating the research on 501c3 and other structural considerations.

[00:33:01] The next agenda item addresses who has the authority to sign contracts of behalf of the organization. The group confirms that Yorik has this authority but expresses concerns about the potential risks of having a single point of failure in this role. They discuss the implications of Yorik being unavailable and whether he can appoint someone to act in his stead.

[00:33:43] Discussion revolves around the potential failure mode of a key individual going on trip for three weeks, which would prevent signing any documents until their return. Concerns are raised about the authority of this individual to appoint someone to act in their absence, with clarification that the current charter does not specify such authority. The conversation shifts to the need for some kind of transfer of responsibilities and the implications of making changes to the charter.

[00:34:34] It is noted that changing the charter is not as burdensome as perceived, as it involves a simple process with a notary in Belgium. The group considers batching changes to the charter to avoid frequent and costly amendments, suggesting a review of the statutes at the beginning of the year to identify necessary changes.

[00:36:02] The agenda moves to the Top Four Initiatives. There is a reflection on a recent developer meeting where a desire for both slower and faster progress was expressed. The focus is on achieving more predictable, regular, and smaller releases while emphasizing code quality and user experience. The CAD working group is highlighted for their highly-organized approach to prioritizing features.

[00:38:19] The conversation emphasizes the benefits of smaller releases over larger ones, with a suggestion to establish a scheduled release date to improve predictability. The group discusses the downsides of frequent updates, citing examples from other platforms that have high release cadences, which can be annoying for users. A twice-yearly release cadence is proposed, with a focus on readiness rather than cramming features into a release.

[00:40:04] The need for a maintainers meeting is discussed, suggesting that the biweekly development meeting could be rebranded to include decision-making responsibilities. This would help clarify the roles of core developers and maintainers in making strategic decisions for the project.

[00:42:30] The group considers how to prioritize initiatives for funding in 2025, with a focus on long-term structural support for OpenCASCADE. There is a discussion about how to decide on initiatives, with suggestions for ranked choice voting to determine priorities based on community interest.

[00:44:03] The status of five FPA-designed grants is reviewed, with a proposal to move forward with voting on several of them. The group discusses the need for more engagement from members regarding these proposals and considers sending out an email to prompt discussion.

[00:46:01] The creation of a closed forum section for educators is mentioned, with a reminder for Alex to provide a list of individuals who need access. The group acknowledges a delay in the creation of the November financial reports, as well as the need to address the bounty award process, with a pending item for Yorik to confirm the status of bounty payments.

[00:50:01] The discussion shifts to the post facto grant and extended bounty program, where two different proposals are identified. One proposal involves pre-authorizing grants without attaching them to individuals, while the other focuses on identifying issues that could be funded. The group recognizes the challenge of finding individuals willing to propose funding for less desirable tasks.

[00:54:15] The trademark application is in a holding pattern, awaiting a two-month period for objections. The group decides to mark this as a review item rather than a to-do. New members are welcomed, and there is a discussion about inviting more members to the group, with Alex nominated for membership.

[00:58:34] The status of grant applications is reviewed, noting a lack of new proposals. Ongoing votes regarding conflicts of interest for FPA members and grant review committee members are mentioned, with expectations that these will pass soon. The group discusses the need for better documentation and knowledge sharing regarding server administration, particularly concerning Kurt's vital role and high "bus factor". Several members highlight upcoming unavailability due to travel, including to areas with limited internet access.
