[00:00:31] - Inquiry about FPA using Ondsel Lens for public cost modeling.  
[00:01:38] - Agenda document issues with numbering; refreshing helps.  
[00:02:01] - Concerns raised about a suspicious email from an Autodesk address.  
[00:03:31] - Decision to ignore spammy emails from unknown sources.  
[00:04:50] - Suggestion to reach out to tutorial developers for TNP tutorials.  
[00:05:57] - Proposal to create a closed forum section for educators discussed.  
[00:07:50] - Process for adding members to the closed forum section explained.  
[00:10:06] - Concerns about forum usage and engagement from new members.  
[00:11:07] - Proposal to increase Adrian's contract for additional responsibilities.  
[00:12:51] - Need for detailed documentation if increasing responsibilities for packaging.  
[00:14:03] - Discussion on the potential removal of the GNU cache system.  
[00:17:20] - Concerns about future complexity and accountability in financial management.  
[00:18:06] - Proposal for a grant or reward pool for OCCT work discussed.  
[00:20:00] - Idea to form a user group for OCCT to incentivize fixes.  
[00:23:06] - Discussion on the potential for OCCT paid support from OpenCascade.  
[00:27:05] - Approach from a donor interested in funding developer transition and projects.  
[00:30:04] - Legal concerns about earmarked donations for specific individuals discussed.  
[00:33:16] - Discussion on the implications of donor influence on FPA funding decisions.  
[00:33:44] - Discussion on FPA's capacity to manage donor-directed projects.  
[00:34:22] - Comparison of FPA's approach to Blender's funding model.  
[00:35:12] - Concerns about transitioning open-source code for new applications.  
[00:36:07] - Potential for developers to submit grant proposals for necessary work.  
[00:37:10] - Complexity in determining grant recipients and managing funds.  
[00:39:02] - Review of October financials, noting high PayPal transaction fees.  
[00:40:17] - Discussion on bounty award process and contractor payments.  
[00:42:07] - Clarification on voting rights for FPA members and non-members.  
[00:45:30] - Proposal for community-driven issue identification for funding.  
[00:49:21] - Suggestions for conflict of interest language in grant proposals.  
[00:52:04] - Proposal for grant committee veto power on FPA member submissions.  
[00:56:02] - Discussion on extending voting period to ensure member participation.  
[01:03:14] - Need to prepare trademark application for new logo.  
[01:05:10] - Consideration of past grant applicants as potential FPA General Assembly invitees.  
[01:04:56] - Discussion on potential new members for the FPA and conflict of interest policy.  
[01:06:17] - Two members, Chris B and Stefan, did not reconfirm their membership.  
[01:08:21] - Proposal to invite community members to join FPA through nominations.  
[01:09:01] - Clarification on the nomination process and voting for new members.  
[01:11:00] - Suggestion to hold a meeting for interested candidates to learn about FPA.  
[01:12:25] - Plan to announce FPA's search for new members in various forums.  
[01:16:09] - Update on ongoing grant applications and enthusiasm for a specific project.  
[01:17:01] - Discussion on final preparations needed for the 1.0 release.  
[01:20:06] - Concerns raised about code quality and the merge process after 1.0.  
[01:21:43] - Proposal to focus on improving code quality and testing in future releases.  
[01:24:30] - Discussion on how to decide FPA's top priorities for the next release.  
[01:27:32] - Plan to revisit item one for further discussion in the next meeting.  
[01:28:35] - Meeting concludes with a note on time management and future agenda items.  


[00:00:00] The discussion opens with a mention of the dark time of the year and the first frost. The group transitions into a topic regarding the FPA and whether it would have an instance of Ondsel Lens running on its infrastructure for public access to cost-free models.

[00:02:01] A member expresses concern about an email from an Autodesk address that seems spammy, prompting a discussion about its legitimacy. The email is deemed unimportant and is suggested to be ignored. The conversation shifts to item 24, which involves a suggestion for TNP tutorials from a newbie user. The group considers whether this could be a project for the FPA and decides to create a GitHub issue for further discussion.

[00:05:57] The next item on the agenda is about starting a closed forum section for educators. One member has reached out to 30 people from a previous survey, receiving limited responses. They propose creating a closed forum to facilitate discussions among interested parties, suggesting it could initially be closed to gauge interest. The process for adding members to this forum is discussed, with a straightforward approach suggested.

[00:10:06] Concerns are raised about whether a closed forum would be beneficial if potential users are not currently engaging with the existing forum. The idea of using a mailing list is mentioned, but the group ultimately agrees that creating a forum is a reasonable step forward. The next item involves a proposal from Adrian regarding a contract renewal and an increase in payment for additional responsibilities, including packaging and maintenance work.

[00:12:22] The group discusses the implications of increasing the contract amount and the importance of ensuring detailed documentation of the new responsibilities. It is agreed to reach out to Adrian to include documentation as part of the proposal before putting it to a vote. The conversation then shifts to the idea of automating financial reporting by removing the GNUcash system and relying solely on CSV files from various sources.

[00:15:27] The need for accurate financial statements is emphasized, with concerns about moving away from established accounting practices. The group agrees that while automation is a good idea, maintaining a reliable bookkeeping system is crucial as the organization grows. The next item discusses a proposal for a grant or reward pool for OCCT work, with a member suggesting that earmarking funds could incentivize problem-solving within the community.

[00:19:34] The discussion highlights the need for collaboration with OpenCascade and the importance of ensuring that any work done aligns with their interests. The idea of establishing a user group for OCCT is mentioned, but concerns about the FPA's capacity to manage such initiatives are raised. The group considers the potential for a reward pool but acknowledges the administrative challenges involved.

[00:23:06] The conversation moves to HK donations, where a member shares that they were approached about a substantial donation aimed at supporting developers transitioning from Ondsel. The donor is interested in funding specific projects but is vague about the details. The group discusses the legal implications of accepting donations earmarked for specific individuals versus projects.

[00:30:04] The member expresses the need for a closed-door meeting to discuss sensitive details before returning to the larger group for open discussion. The conversation concludes with a focus on ensuring that any donations align with the FPA's operational principles, emphasizing the importance of maintaining organizational integrity while exploring funding opportunities.

[00:33:44] The FPA is technically prepared to manage donor funds, but there are concerns about resources and whether they want to take on such responsibilities. The discussion references Yorik's blender example, highlighting the difference between allowing donors to dictate how their funds are used versus a more hands-off approach. The conversation suggests that while donors can express their wishes, the FPA should maintain control over decision-making.

[00:34:38] There is a concern about the utility of the code developed for the lens service, which was initially designed for a closed-source company. The need for development work to adapt this code for open-source use is emphasized. If developers interested in submitting grant proposals are identified, the FPA could manage the process with minimal administration, as they typically approve most grant requests.

[00:36:33] The complexity of granting funds is discussed, particularly regarding whether to grant to individuals or teams. The FPA must consider how to structure grants while balancing donor wishes and administrative responsibilities. The need for a grant system to ensure proper use of funds is acknowledged, along with the necessity of growing the FPA General Assembly.

[00:38:20] The October financials are reviewed, with a focus on spending primarily on development, which aligns with the FPA's goals. However, there is concern about high PayPal transaction fees, which impact the overall funds available. The discussion touches on the need to monitor these fees and their effect on donations.

[00:40:17] The bounty award process is addressed, with updates on who has completed the work and claims being processed. There is a mention of fiduciary responsibilities related to work done by an Ondsel employee, and the need for Ondsel to be paid those bounties to pay remaining their contractors. The committee is also reminded of a pending bank transfer request.

[00:42:02] Yorik was expected to discuss voting rights for FPA members but delayed this due to waiting for the reconformation call. The group considers whether to continue pursuing this topic or to revisit it later. The idea of clarifying voting language is seen as beneficial but not urgent.

[00:43:25] The discussion on grants for upstream project work concludes, as it was previously established that such grants are permissible. The topic of post facto grants is revisited, with suggestions for a process that allows community members to propose issues for funding. The need for a technical committee to review these proposals is emphasized.

[00:46:08] The importance of community involvement in identifying issues for funding is highlighted. The FPA should encourage community members to suggest issues and establish a process for reviewing and funding these suggestions. The idea of creating a page to outline this process is proposed.

[00:49:07] Proposed changes to grant language regarding conflicts of interest are discussed. FPA members can apply for grants but must abstain from voting on their proposals. The review committee, which includes non-FPA members, should also be able to submit proposals without feeling restricted. The need for a veto power for the committee on FPA member proposals is suggested to avoid conflicts during voting.

[00:52:04] The mechanics of how the grant committee would exercise veto power are questioned. The committee's decision-making process should remain independent, and the proposal aims to ensure that if the committee disapproves of an FPA member's grant, it does not proceed to a vote.

[00:54:47] The voting process is clarified, with a proposal to ensure that votes remain open for a minimum of 14 days to allow all members the opportunity to participate. This change aims to prevent premature vote closures and ensure that all voices are heard, especially in close decisions.

[00:56:36] The need to trademark the new logo is discussed, with confirmation that the logo is now licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution License. The process for trademark application is set to begin, with documentation already prepared.

[01:02:30] The group brainstorms potential invitees for the FPA General Assembly. There is a suggestion to reach out to individuals who have previously applied for grants, as they are familiar with the FPA's work. The importance of establishing connections with interested parties is emphasized, particularly as the FPA seeks to grow and engage more actively with the community.

[01:04:56] Discussion revolves around the involvement of Peter in the FPA, with one member suggesting that anyone who has applied for a grant should be considered for outreach, as they are already familiar with the organization and its goals. The importance of finalizing a conflict of interest policy is emphasized before moving forward with applications.

[01:05:40] The group notes a reduction in active members, confirming that Chris B and Stefan have not reconfirmed their participation. There is a suggestion to replace these inactive members with individuals who are already engaged in FreeCAD activities, as previous attempts to involve new members have not been successful.

[01:08:21] A proposal is made to post on forums inviting nominations for new FPA members. The process for handling nominations is discussed, including whether nominations should lead directly to a vote or if they should be considered first. The idea of inviting interested individuals to attend meetings is also suggested as a way to gauge commitment.

[01:12:25] The group agrees to make a forum post about seeking new members and to mention it during the upcoming developer meeting. There is a sense of optimism about increased interest in the FPA due to the upcoming release of version 1.0 of FreeCAD.

[01:13:41] The meeting transitions to discussing the agenda, including the upcoming Fosdem 2025 event and the need for confirmation of registrations. One member mentions the low response rate to a Google Form for registrations, indicating that only two responses have been received so far.

[01:16:09] The ongoing grant applications are reviewed, with one application under enthusiastic review by the committee. The application is for unified transparent previews from a known developer, Casper. Recently approved grants are also highlighted, with plans for a public announcement about them.

[01:17:01] The group discusses the final preparations needed for the 1.0 release, including a blog post about donations. There is a plan to review how funds have been utilized so far, which will coincide with the release announcement.

[01:19:00] A technical issue is acknowledged regarding a problematic pull request that did not merge cleanly, which one member takes responsibility for. The focus will be on resolving this issue to ensure the release candidate is stable.

[01:19:40] The discussion shifts to the developer handbook and the status of translations, with no new updates reported. The topic of finances and legal specialists is also mentioned, indicating ongoing discussions but no concrete developments yet.

[01:20:06] A significant concern is raised about code quality and the merge process, with complaints from community members about untested code being merged too quickly. A proposal is made to establish a goal post-1.0 to improve code quality through stricter merge processes and increased testing.

[01:21:43] The idea of the FPA funding efforts to enhance code quality is supported, with a suggestion that this could be a top priority moving forward. The group discusses the importance of signaling to the community that improving code quality is a priority.

[01:24:30] The conversation turns to how to decide on the FPA's top priorities for the next release. There is a consensus that the admins should propose a list of priorities to the larger community for discussion and voting.

[01:27:20] The meeting concludes with a plan to revisit the discussion on strategic goals in the next meeting, allowing for more time to consider the various proposals and ensure that the priorities align with community needs.
