Meeting summary generated by screenapp.io

[00:02:07] - Discussion on monthly spending; contracts and expenses reviewed.  
[00:03:24] - Upcoming meeting will address questions; teaching PowerPoint series ongoing.  
[00:04:44] - Bounties discussed; process for cashing out bounties clarified.  
[00:06:10] - Paddle's grant requests for part-time work discussed; need for clarity on expectations.  
[00:09:14] - Importance of responsible stewardship of donations emphasized for future sponsorships.  
[00:12:02] - Proposal to change terminology from active/inactive to voting/non-voting discussed.  
[00:19:03] - Transfer of upstream project work grants to support other projects considered.  
[00:22:01] - Post facto grants idea introduced; concerns about expectations and funding discussed.  
[00:27:03] - Bounty program effectiveness highlighted; need for clear criteria for bounties emphasized.
[00:27:46] - Discussion on bounty program for implementing features and potential issues with PRs.  
[00:28:19] - Proposal to allocate a fixed budget of $10,000 for the program.  
[00:29:07] - Suggestion for an open developer meeting to tag bounties on issues.  
[00:30:04] - Need to authorize funding before engaging the community for votes.  
[00:31:21] - Proposed change to grant language to address conflicts of interest in voting.  
[00:32:07] - FPA members must abstain from voting on grants with direct financial interest.  
[00:33:01] - Proposal to extend voting period to 14 days for better member participation.  
[00:38:06] - Agreement on Creative Commons licensing for the new logo to ensure compatibility.  
[00:39:43] - Discussion on allowing bug reports on the forum and its implementation.  
[00:40:11] - Brainstorming invitees for the FPA general assembly and handling conflicts of interest.  
[00:42:05] - Review of outstanding votes, with most resolved except a few ongoing discussions.  
[00:48:17] - Plan to finalize pull requests and prepare for the 1.0 release next week.  
[00:52:12] - Suggestion to focus on code quality improvements post-release to address community concerns.  
[00:55:20] - Discussion on resource allocation for code reviews and potential pushback from developers.  
[00:56:56] - Conclusion of the meeting with thanks to participants.


[00:02:07] The group discusses financial losses for the month, with one participant expressing relief that they are doing their jobs. 

[00:02:27] The conversation turns to monthly spending reports, with mentions of contracts and specific expenses, including a notable payment of 2500 euros. 

[00:03:11] The group anticipates that all questions regarding finances will be answered in the next meeting, with one participant excited about attending the entire session. 

[00:04:02] The agenda is addressed, with a note that they have already discussed the spending from the previous month. 

[00:04:14] The group discusses committed spending, noting that 5500 euros were spent on recurring payments, excluding bounties. 

[00:04:29] There is a reminder about the authorized budget for bounties, which is around five or six thousand dollars, and the need to review the remaining budget. 

[00:04:44] The next agenda item focuses on bounties, with inquiries from various individuals about cashing out their bounties. 

[00:05:04] A link is provided to a list of closed issues with bounty tags, and there is a suggestion to communicate with individuals about their bounty claims. 

[00:05:35] A participant proposes to have a conversation with Paddle regarding his grant requests, which involve full-time employment for two months. 

[00:06:10] The discussion highlights the need for patience and understanding regarding grant requests, as many individuals are seeking similar opportunities. 

[00:06:34] The group agrees that Paddle's requests should be handled privately rather than publicly on GitHub, to maintain discretion. 

[00:07:14] The conversation shifts to the nature of Paddle's grant requests, which are time commitment grants rather than specific deliverables. 

[00:08:14] There is a consensus that while Paddle is trusted, the organization cannot provide full-time employment and must manage expectations accordingly. 

[00:09:14] The group discusses the importance of demonstrating responsible stewardship of donations to attract corporate sponsors in the future. 

[00:10:02] The conversation emphasizes the need for transparency in financial dealings with potential sponsors, ensuring that the organization maintains its independence. 

[00:10:54] The agenda item regarding payment processes for bounties is raised, with concerns about ensuring that payments are made only to those who have legitimately completed the work. 

[00:12:02] A participant suggests reviewing closed bounties to determine who should receive payments, establishing a clear process for future claims. 

[00:13:40] The discussion turns to the terminology used for member statuses, with a proposal to change "active/inactive" to "voting/non-voting" to clarify participation levels. 

[00:14:12] The group reflects on the implications of the current terminology and the need for clearer communication regarding member participation. 

[00:15:12] There is a discussion about the rules governing member voting and the importance of participation in the decision-making process. 

[00:16:02] A participant suggests reaching out to Paulo to clarify his intentions regarding his membership status and voting participation. 

[00:17:01] The conversation acknowledges that changing the terminology could help reduce negative connotations associated with being labeled as inactive. 

[00:18:05] The group agrees to leave the discussion open for further consideration and to follow up with Paulo regarding his voting status. 

[00:19:10] The topic of transferring upstream project work is introduced, with a focus on the possibility of granting funds to other projects that benefit the FreeCAD ecosystem. 

[00:20:02] The group discusses the existing statutes that allow for funding other projects, noting the absence of a formal program for this purpose. 

[00:20:58] A participant emphasizes the need for explicit guidelines regarding grants for projects outside of FreeCAD, highlighting the potential for collaboration. 

[00:22:01] The idea of post facto grants is introduced, suggesting a simplified process for obtaining funding without the need for a full proposal. 

[00:23:09] Concerns are raised about the risks associated with post facto grants, particularly regarding the uncertainty of funding approval after work has been completed. 

[00:24:12] The group discusses the success of the bounty program and the potential for expanding it to include more defined tasks and clearer criteria for payment. 

[00:25:01] A participant suggests that the FPA could pre-allocate funds for specific issues, allowing developers to work on them without needing to submit a grant proposal. 

[00:26:22] The conversation concludes with a consensus on the need for a structured approach to managing bounties and grants, ensuring clarity and accountability in the funding process.

[00:27:46] The discussion revolves around a bounty program aimed at implementing features, highlighting the challenges of determining whether a pull request (PR) qualifies as sufficient implementation when it lacks certain elements or has a poor user interface. The contrast is drawn with bug fixes, where the criteria for success are clearer, such as whether a crash has been resolved. The group believes these challenges can be overcome by attaching a fixed budget, suggesting a commitment of $10,000 to test the program. If the outcome is negative, they would reconsider; if positive, they might increase the budget for future initiatives.

[00:28:39] There is a proposal to put the $10,000 budget to a vote, with the approval of the FPA (presumably a governing body) required before proceeding. The idea is to organize an open developer meeting to discuss issues and tag $10,000 worth of bounties on them, similar to a previous successful initiative that encouraged community involvement and transparency in decision-making.

[00:29:40] The conversation shifts to the need for a meeting to finalize the vote and discuss how to communicate this to the community. The funding must be authorized first, and the group agrees to post on the forum to facilitate the vote. One participant indicates they will leave the screen app running while they exit the meeting.

[00:30:15] The agenda continues with item 17, which involves proposed changes to grant language to address potential conflicts of interest. A member mentions that there was no mention of FPM (presumably a member group) members applying for grants, and the discussion centers on ensuring that members do not vote on proposals where they have a direct financial interest. The proposed rule would state that FPM members must abstain from voting on any grant proposal in which they have a financial stake.

[00:32:07] The group discusses the voting process, suggesting that the vote should remain open for 14 days to ensure adequate participation, even if the minimum number of votes is reached quickly. There is a consensus that extending the voting period might be beneficial, given that some members may not visit the forum frequently.

[00:36:05] The topic of trademarking the new logo is introduced, with a member presenting changes made to the PR to add a license to the logo. The logo will be placed under a Creative Commons license, which is compatible with LGPL, ensuring no future licensing issues arise. The member confirms they have formal authorization from the logo's creator to transfer ownership to the FPA and suggests keeping a record of this authorization in a secure location.

[00:39:28] The group discusses additional spending and the approval of bug reports on the forum, indicating that these items can be marked as completed. They brainstorm a list of invitees for the FPA general assembly and mention that they have not heard from certain members regarding their participation.

[00:41:10] The conversation shifts to outstanding votes, with most items resolved. The group decides to remove resolved items from the agenda while keeping those still under discussion. They note that the travel grant and budget for a specific event have been approved, while other items remain pending.

[00:45:03] The release of version 1.0 is discussed, with a decision made to stop accepting new pull requests for this version. The focus will be on clearing the existing queue of about ten pull requests and one blocker issue. The plan is to build new packages and allow them to "cook" for a week before the official release, with a discussion on the best day for the release.

[00:49:01] The group reflects on the importance of releasing version 1.0, acknowledging that perfection is unattainable and that subsequent updates may be necessary to address bugs. They emphasize the need to move forward rather than delay the release indefinitely.

[00:51:00] The agenda includes discussions on various topics, including the translation of the developer handbook and the need for discussions with specialists regarding grants. There is a suggestion to focus on code quality post-release, addressing community concerns about the current state of the code.

[00:52:12] The conversation touches on the idea of forming a testing group composed of non-technical users to provide feedback on the software's functionality. This group could help identify issues that developers might overlook due to their familiarity with the code.

[00:55:20] The group acknowledges the challenges of balancing development and code review responsibilities, noting that developers may not produce as much code if they are also tasked with reviewing others' work. They recognize the need for resources to address code quality and testing issues, suggesting that this could be a focal point for future discussions within the FPA.
