# FPA Meeting Minutes

2024-11-07

Generated by ScreenApp.io

[00:14:00] - Discussion on full-time employee research and hiring complexities.  
[00:17:06] - Preference for contractor relationships over full-time employees for now.  
[00:19:00] - Consideration of creating a parallel organization in the US for tax benefits.  
[00:21:00] - 501c3 status in the US allows tax-deductible donations.  
[00:23:31] - Big donation received, preliminary plans for funding and project integration discussed.  
[00:25:00] - Authority to bind the organization discussed; chairperson's signature required for contracts.  
[00:30:10] - Current statutes require chairperson's signature for legal documents.  
[00:32:27] - Need for a targeted roadmap for FPA initiatives and funding priorities.  
[00:36:01] - Discussion on FreeCAD's adoption barriers and potential improvements.  
[00:39:40] - KiCAD integration mentioned as important for FreeCAD users in commercial workflows. 
[00:39:48] - Discussion on FreeCAD's integration with other tools and user adoption.  
[00:41:16] - Excitement about collaboration between FreeCAD and KiCAD developers at FOSDEM.  
[00:43:40] - Need for community consensus on future development priorities post version 1.0.  
[00:45:03] - Brad to add agenda item for discussing versioning and development processes.  
[00:46:04] - Five open discussions on potential FPA grants for community feedback.  
[00:46:14] - Closed forum section for educators established, access limited to specific members.  
[00:51:05] - Discussion on OCCT grant support costs and future funding considerations.  
[00:52:30] - Financials show stable revenue for 2024, but growth is desired.  
[00:55:01] - Concerns about administrative overhead with proposed post facto grants.  
[01:00:24] - Emphasis on planning and coordination over reactive bounty programs for development.  
[01:01:12] - Need for ongoing discussions about the draft document for post facto grants.  
[01:02:27] - Conflict of interest policy to be translated and integrated into rules.  
[01:06:33] - Approval of unified transparent previews grant, funding process to begin.  
[01:09:01] - Initial donor funding to encourage community contributions to the lens code project.  

[00:14:00] The first agenda item discusses the research on full-time employee hiring. One participant mentions starting research on what it would mean to have a full-time employee and notes that a pull request has been made regarding the findings. The discussion reveals that hiring a full-time employee would significantly impact their earnings, suggesting that it is not feasible at the moment. The complexity of hiring someone from outside Belgium is highlighted, with the suggestion that using a third-party service like Deal could simplify the process, albeit at a higher cost due to additional financial requirements.

[00:17:06] The conversation shifts towards the idea of maintaining contractor relationships instead of hiring full-time employees. This approach would allow for flexibility and would not require the same level of financial commitment. The need for contractors to be registered as independent workers in their respective countries is emphasized, along with the importance of understanding the limits of compensation through donations.

[00:18:23] Another point raised is the potential creation of a parallel organization in the US, such as a 501c3, which could facilitate easier hiring of US employees and provide tax advantages for donations. The discussion acknowledges that while this could simplify some processes, it would also introduce additional administrative work and complexity in accounting.

[00:21:13] The group concludes the discussion on item 19, noting that it remains a work in progress. The next item on the agenda addresses a significant donation from an anonymous donor, which has been discussed with the donor and is supported. A preliminary plan is in place to transition some of the Ondsel code into a usable format, allowing for contributions. The donation is expected to sustain a few people for several months, and there is a parallel grant being pursued to support additional work.

[00:24:49] The conversation moves to item 17, which concerns who has the authority to bind the organization. It is noted that the statutes state that only the chairperson represents the association, which raises questions about the need for a signature on contracts. The group discusses the implications of this requirement and considers whether to maintain the current structure or to delegate authority through a power of attorney.

[00:29:06] The discussion reveals that the current chair is comfortable with the existing process, which requires the chair's signature on important documents. The group agrees that this method provides a level of security and oversight, especially for future transitions in leadership.

[00:31:06] The next agenda item focuses on the FPA initiatives and the need for a top four priorities list for funding. The group reflects on the importance of having specific goals to drive project development and acknowledges that a long-term vision is also necessary. The conversation emphasizes the need for a balance between immediate funding priorities and a broader, evolving roadmap for the project.

[00:34:01] The discussion highlights the importance of understanding user needs and market demands, particularly regarding connectivity and technical drawing capabilities. The group considers the integration of FreeCAD with other tools, such as KiCAD, and the potential for expanding its functionality to better serve commercial users. The need for ongoing dialogue and collaboration among developers and stakeholders is recognized as essential for shaping future priorities and funding decisions.

[00:39:48] Discussions around the use of FreeCAD in conjunction with KiCAD for thermal analysis and RF applications highlight a significant user base. Many commercial users are integrating FreeCAD with KiCAD, and there is a desire for improved interoperability between FreeCAD and other systems. The introduction of features like reloadable STEP files aims to enhance FreeCAD's flexibility and integration capabilities, which could accelerate its adoption in commercial workflows.

[00:41:16] Excitement is building for the upcoming FOSDEM event, which will include a two-day hackathon involving both FreeCAD and KiCAD developers. This collaboration aims to foster a better understanding of each other's systems and potentially lead to innovative solutions that have not been previously considered. There is anticipation for what outcomes may arise from this interaction.

[00:42:03] There are considerations regarding the integration of KiCAD's StepUp workbench with FreeCAD, although challenges related to licensing and development timelines have been encountered. The discussion suggests a potential for recycling useful functionalities from the workbench into FreeCAD, which could enhance the core capabilities of FreeCAD.

[00:43:40] The conversation shifts to the need for consensus within the maintainer community regarding future priorities for FreeCAD's development. There is a call for a structured discussion on what the next version should entail, particularly in terms of breaking changes and the implications for versioning. The upcoming developer meeting is identified as a suitable venue for this discussion.

[00:45:31] An update is provided regarding five open discussions about potential FPA-designed grants, with a request for feedback from the community. These discussions are expected to transition into votes for funding authorization in the near future.

[00:46:14] A new closed forum section for educators has been established, with access currently limited to the FPA admin team. There is a need to verify visibility for non-admin users, and steps are being taken to ensure that the forum is appropriately restricted to intended participants.

[00:49:01] The topic of a specific grant or reward pool for OCCT is revisited, with a consensus that while the idea is promising, its discussion will be covered as part of the analysis of the next Top Four funding priorities. The initial cost estimates for paid OCCT support are deemed too high for the FPA to consider at this time, but the discussion remains open for future consideration.

[00:51:41] Financial updates indicate that projected revenue for 2024 is stable but not growing compared to 2023. The community reflects on the importance of growth and the potential impact of recent developments post-1.0 release on revenue.

[00:52:36] The bounty award process is referenced as a point of ongoing discussion, with a reminder that funding for previously approved bounties is being processed. There is a need to confirm whether all bounties have been paid out.

[00:53:30] A proposal to change the terminology from "active/inactive" to "voting/non-voting" is discussed, with the motivation being to reduce the stigma associated with being labeled as inactive. The conversation suggests that the current terminology may not need to change, as the discussion has not gained traction.

[00:54:41] The concept of post facto grants is introduced, with a focus on minimizing administrative overhead for existing teams. Concerns are raised about the potential increase in workload and the need for a separate group to manage these grants if they are to be implemented.

[00:56:34] The discussion emphasizes the importance of planning and analysis in transitioning to a more professional development process. There is a desire to maintain enthusiasm among casual contributors while ensuring that the focus remains on forward-looking initiatives rather than reactive measures.

[01:01:04] The ongoing grant applications are noted to be in a lull, with a recent approval for a small grant related to unified transparent previews. The funding process for this grant will commence shortly.

[01:07:21] Recent votes regarding contracts and new members have been successful, with a focus on ensuring that all necessary approvals are in place for ongoing projects. There is a mention of needing to follow up with a member who has been less active recently.

[01:08:34] The conversation concludes with a note about the Ondsel Lens migration project, indicating that a Discord channel will be established for discussions related to this project. The intention is to encourage community contributions and ensure that the initial funding is utilized effectively for broader participation.
